DOCSP-28864: function (passTo) operations (#359)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/aggregation/aggregation-expression-operations.txt

     }
   ]

> Function Operations

Author: would it be appropriate to call them "Custom" operations?

> Function Operations

Reviewer: Let's try that for now.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can apply custom functions to values of type
``MqlValue`` using the methods described in this section.

> To improve readability and brevity in your code, you can move redundant code into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve readability and allow for code reuse, you can move redundant code into
```
Maybe brevity isn't worth mentioning explicitly (the corresponding MQL is relatively short by comparison, in part because we don't have `average` implemented yet)

       | `passMapTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlMap.html#passMapTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__
       | `passNumberTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlNumber.html#passNumberTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__
       | `passStringTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlString.html#passStringTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__

     - :manual:`$function </reference/operator/aggregation/function/>`

.. include:: /includes/fundamentals/agg-mql-diff.rst

Suppose you need to determine how a class is performing against some
benchmarks. You want to find the average final grade for each class and
compare it against the benchmark values.

To calculate each class average, write an averaging method called
``classAvg()`` and pass the ``students`` array to this method by using
the ``passArrayTo()`` method. To compare each class average against your
defined benchmarks, write a method called ``evalAvg()``. Apply this
method to the class averages by chaining the ``passNumberTo()`` method
to the previous method. To output the result as the ``evaluation``

> field, use the ``project()`` method.

Reviewer: It seems worth saying that the two custom methods can be reused in other queries (for example, you might write a query that filters certain students not by class, but perhaps by entry year, or teacher; and you might use the evaluate method to evaluate a single student).

Reviewer: Looks good

The following code shows sample implementations of the methods used in
this aggregation:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   public static MqlNumber classAvg(MqlArray<MqlDocument> u) {
       var sum = u.sum(x -> x.getInteger("finalGrade"));
       var avg = sum.divide(u.size());
       return avg;
   }
   
   public static MqlString evalAvg(MqlNumber v) {
       MqlNumber[] b = {of(70), of(85)};
       var msg = v.switchOn(on -> on
               .lte(b[0], m -> of("Needs improvement"))
               .lte(b[1], m -> of("Meets expectations"))
               .defaults(m -> of("Exceeds expectations")));
       return msg;
   }

> The following code shows the pipeline stage for this aggregation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code shows the pipeline for this aggregation:
```
Not sure if we caught this in the template, but because we wrap in asList, it's a pipeline, not a stage. (Alternatively, we can call it a pipeline stage if we remove the asList wrapping.)

Author: Adding to list of cleanup items

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   Arrays.asList(project(fields(
           computed("evaluation",
                   current().<MqlDocument>getArray("students")

>                            .passArrayTo(u -> classAvg(u))
>                            .passNumberTo(v -> evalAvg(v))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                           .passArrayTo(students -> averageOf(students, "finalGrade"))
                           .passNumberTo(grade -> evaluate(grade, of(70), of(85)))
```
Naming for students and grade variables.

Consider whether it helps to pass in the fieldName into avg, and high and low into evaluate. Not sure if this helps or not myself, just something that occurred to me.

Author: I thought about doing this too, which is why the benchmarks were in an array. I think that if we suggest code reuse for other fields, etc. the methods should take these parameters. Restructuring and rewording.

Reviewer: Right, fair point

     }
   ]

Function Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can apply custom functions to values of type
``MqlValue`` using the methods described in this section.

To improve readability and brevity in your code, you can move redundant code into
static methods. However, it is often not possible to chain these methods in

> Java. The ``passTo()`` method lets you chain custom methods in your code.

Author: Maxim suggested including this because there isn't really an equivalent in the Query API and the way this method works is pretty different than all the others. The purpose is also different than the others, in a way

       | `passIntegerTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlInteger.html#passIntegerTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__
       | `passMapTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlMap.html#passMapTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__
       | `passNumberTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlNumber.html#passNumberTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__
       | `passStringTo() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/mql/MqlString.html#passStringTo(java.util.function.Function)>`__

     - :manual:`$function </reference/operator/aggregation/function/>`

.. include:: /includes/fundamentals/agg-mql-diff.rst

Suppose you need to determine how a class is performing against some
benchmarks. You want to find the average final grade for each class and
compare it against the benchmark values to identify whether the class
does not meet, meets, or exceeds expectations.

To calculate each class average, write an averaging method called
``classAvg()`` and pass the ``students`` array to this method by using

> the ``passArrayTo()`` method. To compare each class average against your
> defined benchmarks, write a method called ``evalAvg()`` and apply this
> method to the class averages by chaining the ``passNumberTo()`` method.

Reviewer 2: [suggestion]

"chaining" to what? Chaining by itself is not clear. Also, I'd recommend breaking this up into two sentences, especially if you add what you are chaining to since that will add word length and this is already longer than recommended.

```suggestion
the ``passArrayTo()`` method. To compare each class average against your
defined benchmarks, write a method called ``evalAvg()``. Apply this
method to the class averages by chaining the ``passNumberTo()`` method to the calculated class averages.
```

Author: I broke up the sentence and added some clarification about what this method should be chained to. I thought that chaining is kind of a syntax-related verb, so I indicated that this method is chained to the previous one, rather than chained to a concept or description of what the previous method represents/outputs. Does that make sense?

To output the result as the ``evaluation`` field, use the ``project()``
method.

The following code shows the pipeline stage for this aggregation:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   Arrays.asList(project(fields(
           computed("evaluation",
                   current().<MqlDocument>getArray("students")
                           .passArrayTo(u -> classAvg(u))
                           .passNumberTo(v -> evalAvg(v))
   ))));

> The following code shows sample implementations of the methods that were

Author: removed and moved this whole part up before the pipeline code

used in the previous aggregation:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   public static MqlNumber classAvg(MqlArray<MqlDocument> u) {
       var sum = u.sum(x -> x.getInteger("finalGrade"));
       var avg = sum.divide(u.size());
       return avg;
   }
   
   public static MqlString evalAvg(MqlNumber v) {
       MqlNumber[] b = {of(70), of(85)};
       var msg = v.switchOn(on -> on
               .lte(b[0], m -> of("Needs improvement"))
               .lte(b[1], m -> of("Meets expectations"))
               .defaults(m -> of("Exceeds expectations")));
       return msg;

>    }

Reviewer 2: [question]

Would it make sense to put these methods before the pipeline? That way readers already know what they are when they are pulled into the pipeline?

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

   public static MqlNumber gradeAverage(MqlArray<MqlDocument> students, String fieldName) {
       var sum = students.sum(student -> student.getInteger(fieldName));
       var avg = sum.divide(students.size());
       return avg;
   }

>    public static MqlString evaluate(MqlNumber avg, MqlNumber[] benchmarks) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   public static MqlString evaluate(MqlNumber grade, MqlNumber toMeet, MqlNumber toExceed) {
```
If we need multiple values, we should use a list, or the `MqlNumber...` syntax, but here we are constrained to exactly two values because of the 3 resulting evaluations. Alternative naming might be low/high, cutoff1/cutoff2, first/second, or something else.

The grade might not be an average.

>        var msg = avg.switchOn(on -> on
>                .lte(benchmarks[0], m -> of("Needs improvement"))
>                .lte(benchmarks[1], m -> of("Meets expectations"))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       var message = grade.switchOn(on -> on
               .lte(benchmarks[0], g -> of("Needs improvement"))
               .lte(benchmarks[1], g -> of("Meets expectations"))
```
The `m` suggests that it corresponds to msg, but actually it corresponds to the grade that is being "switched on".

   Arrays.asList(project(fields(
           computed("evaluation",
                   current().<MqlDocument>getArray("students")
                           .passArrayTo(students -> gradeAverage(students, "finalGrade"))

>                            .passNumberTo(grade -> evaluate(grade, new MqlNumber[]{of(70), of(85)}))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                           .passNumberTo(grade -> evaluate(grade, of(70), of(85)))
```
